Bananas are a widely consumed fruit around the world. Any given banana may differ in appearance, taste, and texture from another, and people may vary on how they define a “good” banana. The Banana Quality data set contains seven measurements of size, weight, sweetness, softness, time from harvest, ripeness, and acidity for 8000 bananas. Predictor variables are all numeric, and their values are centered by an unknown method. While this data transformation may limit the interpretability of resulting models and parameters, it does not completely impede the process. The response variable in the data set qualifies each banana into the category of “good” or “bad” by some unknown algorithm – the focus of the project. Intuition hints that some of the given predictor variables may be related to one another (e.g., sweetness and ripeness), so a dimension reduction technique, i.e., principal component analysis, will be utilized to investigate correlated variables. This analysis will then inform the procedures for building a classification model; various methods (i.e., LDA, QDA, KNN, logistic regression, classification trees) will be employed to estimate the algorithm for determining a “good” banana and compared to one another. The size of the dataset allows it to be split into many large training and test data sets to determine classification error for each method. This project expands on research in banana quality prediction and has practical applications to the agricultural industry and food quality control. 
